---
title: "The trace element and Sr-Nd-Pb isotope geochemistry of Juan Fernandez lavas reveal variable contributions from a high3He/4He mantle plume"
collection: talks
type: "2018 Volc-OR Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2018-04-12-JF
venue: "Volc-OR Conference, OSU, 2018"
date: 2018-04-12
location: "Corvallis, OR"
excerpt: "Presentation at student-organized and highly successful volcanology conference in Oregon with colleagues from OSU, UO, PSU"

---

# Trace element, Sr-Nd-Pb isotope geochemistry of Juan Fernandez lavas

I presented my findings about the Juan Fernandez islands during the session: "Geophysical and geochemical insights into volcanic hotspots and large igneous provinces". This was the morning of the very special, student-organized conference about volcanology research done by scholars at Oregon institutions. I convened the session and introduced 3 other amazing talks. Just for fun, you can read my introduction script below.

<details>
<summary>Session chair script for "Geophysical and geochemical insights into volcanic hotspots and large igneous province"</summary>
 
> 
> Thanks everyone for attending the second session of student talks of the first Volcanology
Students of Oregon Conference! I will be introducing the second topic, “Geophysical and
geochemical insights into volcanic hotspots and large igneous provinces.” I was banking on Peter
to introduce the topic of Large igneous provinces in the previous session, and indeed, he did a
beautiful job, so there’s not much left for me to say, is there? The twin phenomena
of intraplate hotspots and large volcanic provinces do not discriminate among the oceanic and
continental lithosphere when they manifest on the Earth’s surface. Today’s range of talks will
reflect not only the variability of this volcanism, but the diversity of methods used to study them,
and the various competing hypotheses proposed to explain them. Intraplate volcanism reflects a
very small proportion of the annual volcanic production, with hotspots and large igneous
provinces accounting for less than 10% of the annual volcanic output. In addition to answering
the most basic question of why anomalous volcanism occurs, studying these phenomena
provides insights into many still unknown questions after the Plate Tectonics Revolution. Some
examples of these questions are: What initiates plate movement? How do you break up
supercontinents? What geologic events correspond to mass extinctions?

</details>


[View pdf of slides](/files/2.2_Truong.pdf)

